.EH '\fBXlib \- C Library\fP''\fBX11, Release 4\fP'
.OH '\fBXlib \- C Library\fP''\fBX11, Release 4\fP'
.EF ''\fB % \fP''
.OF ''\fB % \fP''
\&
.sp 1
.ce 3
\s+1\fBChapter 1\fP\s-1

\s+1\fBIntroduction to Xlib\fP\s-1
.sp 2
.nr H1 1
.nr H2 0
.nr H3 0
.nr H4 0
.nr H5 0
.na
.LP
.XS
Chapter 1: Introduction to Xlib
.XE
The X Window System is a network-transparent window system
that was designed at MIT.
It was designed to be operating-system independent, and
runs under a variety other operating systems.
.LP
X display servers run on computers with either monochrome or color
bitmap display hardware.
The server distributes user input to and accepts output requests from various
client programs located either on the same machine or elsewhere in
the network.
Xlib is a C subroutine library that application programs (clients)
use to interface with the window system by means of a stream connection.
Although a client usually runs on the same machine as the X server 
it is talking to, this need not be the case.
.LP
\fIXlib \- C Language X Interface\fP is a reference guide to the low-level 
C language interface to the X Window System protocol.
It is neither a tutorial nor a user's guide to programming the X Window System.
Rather, it provides a detailed description of each function in the library
as well as a discussion of the related background information.
\fIXlib \- C Language X Interface\fP assumes a basic understanding of a graphics 
window system and of the C programming language.
Other higher-level abstractions
(for example, those provided by the toolkits for X)
are built on top of the Xlib library.
For further information about these higher-level libraries,
see the appropriate toolkit documentation.
The \fIX Window System Protocol\fP provides the definitive word on the
behavior of X.
Although additional information appears here,
the protocol document is the ruling document.
.LP
To provide an introduction to X programming,
this chapter discusses:
.IP \(bu 5
Overview of the X Window System
.IP \(bu 5
Errors
.IP \(bu 5
Naming and argument conventions
.IP \(bu 5
Programming considerations
.IP \(bu 5
Conventions used in this document
.LE
.NH 2
Overview of the X Window System
.XS
\*(SN Overview of the X Window System
.XE
.LP
Some of the terms used in this book are unique to X,
and other terms that are common to other window systems 
have different meanings in X.
You may find it helpful to refer to the glossary, 
which is located at the end of the book.
.LP
The X Window System supports one or more screens containing
overlapping windows or subwindows.
A screen is a physical monitor and hardware,
which can be either color or black and white.
There can be multiple screens for each display or workstation.
A single X server can provide display services for any number of screens.
A set of screens for a single user with one keyboard and one pointer
(usually a mouse) is called a display.
.LP
.IN "Screen"
All the windows in an X server are arranged in strict hierarchies.
At the top of each hierarchy is a root window,
which covers each of the display screens.
Each root window is partially or completely covered by child windows.
All windows, except for root windows, have parents.
There is usually at least one window for each application program.
.IN "Child window"
.IN "Parent Window"
Child windows may in turn have their own children.
In this way, 
an application program can create an arbitrarily deep tree 
on each screen.
X provides graphics, text, and raster operations for windows.
.LP
A child window can be larger than its parent. 
That is, part or all of
the child window can extend beyond the boundaries of the parent,
but all output to a window is clipped by its parent.
.IN "Stacking order"
If several children of a window have overlapping locations, 
one of the children is considered to be on top of or raised over the
others thus obscuring them.
Output to areas covered by other windows is suppressed by the window
system unless the window has backing store.
If a window is obscured by a second window, 
the second window obscures only those ancestors of the second window,
which are also ancestors of the first window.
.LP
.IN "Window" "" "@DEF@"
A window has a border zero or more pixels in width, which can
be any pattern (pixmap) or solid color you like.
A window usually but not always has a background pattern,
which will be repainted by the window system when uncovered.
Each window has its own coordinate system.
Child windows obscure their parents unless the child windows (of the same depth)
have no background, and graphic operations in the parent window usually
are clipped by the children.
.LP
X does not guarantee to preserve the contents of windows. 
When part or all of a window is hidden and then brought back onto the screen,
its contents may be lost. 
The server then sends the client program an
.PN Expose
event to notify it that part or all of the window needs to be repainted.
Programs must be prepared to regenerate the contents of windows on demand.
.LP
.IN "Pixmap"
.IN "Drawable"
.IN "Tile"
.IN "Bitmap"
X also provides off-screen storage of graphics objects,
called pixmaps.
Single plane (depth 1) pixmaps are sometimes referred to as bitmaps.
Pixmaps can be used in most graphics functions interchangeably with
windows and are used in various graphics operations to define patterns or tiles.
Windows and pixmaps together are referred to as drawables.
.LP
Most of the functions in Xlib just add requests to an output buffer.
These requests later execute asynchronously on the X server.
Functions that return values of information stored in
the server do not return (that is, they block)
until an explicit reply is received or an error occurs.
You can provide an error handler,
which will be called when the error is reported.
.LP
.IN "XSync"
If a client does not want a request to execute asynchronously, 
it can follow the request with a call to 
.PN XSync , 
which blocks until all previously buffered
asynchronous events have been sent and acted on.
As an important side effect, 
the output buffer in Xlib is always flushed by a call to any function
that returns a value from the server or waits for input.
.LP
.IN "Resource IDs"
.IN "Resource IDs" "Window"
.IN "Resource IDs" "Font"
.IN "Resource IDs" "Pixmap"
.IN "Resource IDs" "Cursor"
.IN "Resource IDs" "GContext"
Many Xlib functions will return an integer resource ID,
which allows you to refer to objects stored on the X server.
These can be of type 
.PN Window , 
.PN Font , 
.PN Pixmap , 
.PN Colormap ,
.PN Cursor , 
and 
.PN GContext ,
as defined in the file
.Pn < X11/X.h >.\(+-
Note that
.PN None
is the universal NULL resource ID or atom.
.FS
\(+- The <\|> has the meaning defined by the # include statement
of the C compiler and is a file relative to a well-known directory.
On POSIX systems, this is
.PN /usr/include .
.FE
These resources are created by requests and are destroyed
(or freed) by requests or when connections are closed.
Most of these resources are potentially sharable between
applications, and in fact, windows are manipulated explicitly by
window manager programs.
Fonts and cursors are shared automatically across multiple screens.
Fonts are loaded and unloaded as needed and are shared by multiple clients.
Fonts are often cached in the server.
Xlib provides no support for sharing graphics contexts between applications.
.LP
.IN "Event"
Client programs are informed of events.
Events may either be side effects of a request (for example, restacking windows
generates 
.PN Expose 
events) or completely asynchronous (for example, from the keyboard).
A client program asks to be informed of events.
Because other applications can send events to your application,
programs must be prepared to handle (or ignore) events of all types.
.LP
Input events (for example, a key pressed or the pointer moved) 
arrive asynchronously from the server and are queued until they are 
requested by an explicit call (for example,
.PN XNextEvent
or
.PN XWindowEvent ).
In addition, some library
functions (for example,
.PN XRaiseWindow )
generate 
.PN Expose
and
.PN ConfigureRequest
events.
These events also arrive asynchronously, but the client may
.IN "XSync"
wish to explicitly wait for them by calling
.PN XSync
after calling a function that can cause the server to generate events.
.NH 2
Errors
.XS
\*(SN Errors
.XE
.LP
Some functions return 
.PN Status , 
an integer error indication.
If the function fails, it returns a zero.
If the function returns a status of zero,
it has not updated the return arguments.
.IN "Status"
Because C does not provide multiple return values, 
many functions must return their results by writing into client-passed storage. 
.IN "Error" "handling"
By default, errors are handled either by a standard library function
or by one that you provide.
Functions that return pointers to strings return NULL pointers if
the string does not exist.
.LP
The X server reports protocol errors at the time that it detects them.
If more than one error could be generated for a given request,
the server can report any of them.
.LP
Because Xlib usually does not transmit requests to the server immediately
(that is, it buffers them), errors can be reported much later than they
actually occur.
For debugging purposes, however,
Xlib provides a mechanism for forcing synchronous behavior 
(see section 8.12.1).
When synchronization is enabled, 
errors are reported as they are generated.
.LP
When Xlib detects an error,
it calls an error handler,
which your program can provide.
If you do not provide an error handler,
the error is printed, and your program terminates.
.NH 2
Naming and Argument Conventions within Xlib
.XS
\*(SN Naming and Argument Conventions within Xlib
.XE
.LP
Xlib follows a number of conventions for the naming and syntax of the functions.
Given that you remember what information the function requires,
these conventions are intended to make the syntax of the functions more 
predictable.
.LP
The major naming conventions are:
.IP \(bu 5
To differentiate the X symbols from the other symbols,
the library uses mixed case for external symbols.
It leaves lowercase for variables and all uppercase for user macros,
as per existing convention.
.IP \(bu 5
All Xlib functions begin with a capital X.
.IP \(bu 5
The beginnings of all function names and symbols are capitalized.
.IP \(bu 5
All user-visible data structures begin with a capital X.
More generally,
anything that a user might dereference begins with a capital X.
.IP \(bu 5
Macros and other symbols do not begin with a capital X.
To distinguish them from all user symbols,
each word in the macro is capitalized.
.IP \(bu 5
All elements  of or variables in a data structure are in lowercase.
Compound words, where needed, are constructed with underscores (_).
.IP \(bu 5
The display argument, where used, is always first in the argument list.
.IP \(bu 5
All resource objects, where used, occur at the beginning of the argument list
immediately after the display argument.
.IP \(bu 5
When a  graphics context is present together with
another type of resource (most commonly, a drawable), the
graphics context occurs in the argument list after the other
resource.
Drawables outrank all other resources.
.IP \(bu 5
Source arguments always precede the destination arguments in the argument list.
.IP \(bu 5
The x argument always precedes the y argument in the argument list.
.IP \(bu 5
The width argument always precedes the height argument in the argument list.
.IP \(bu 5
Where the x, y, width, and height arguments are used together,
the x and y arguments always precede the width and height arguments.
.IP \(bu 5
Where a mask is accompanied with a structure,
the mask always precedes the pointer to the structure in the argument list.
.NH 2
Programming Considerations
.XS
\*(SN Programming Considerations
.XE
.LP
The major programming considerations are:
.IP \(bu 5
Keyboards are the greatest variable between different
manufacturer's workstations.
If you want your program to be portable,
you should be particularly conservative here.
.IP \(bu 5
Many display systems have limited amounts of off-screen memory.
If you can, you should minimize use of pixmaps and backing
store.
.IP \(bu 5
The user should have control of his screen real estate.
Therefore, you should write your applications to react to window management
rather than presume control of the entire screen.
What you do inside of your top-level window, however,
is up to your application.
For further information,
see chapter 9.
.IP \(bu 5
Coordinates and sizes in X are actually 16-bit quantities.
They usually are declared as an ``int'' in the interface
(int is 16 bits on some machines).
Values larger than 16 bits are truncated silently.
Sizes (width and height) are unsigned quantities.
This decision was taken to minimize the bandwidth required for a
given level of performance.
.NH 2
Conventions Used in \fIXlib \- C Language X Interface\fP
.XS
\*(SN Conventions Used in \fIXlib \- C Language X Interface\fP
.XE
.LP
This document uses the following conventions:
.IP \(bu 5
Global symbols in \fIXlib \- C Language X Interface\fP are printed in 
.PN this 
.PN special 
.PN font .
These can be either function names,
symbols defined in include files, or structure names.
Arguments are printed in \fIitalics\fP.
.IP \(bu 5
Each function is introduced by a general discussion that 
distinguishes it from other functions.
The function declaration itself follows,
and each argument is specifically explained.
General discussion of the function, if any is required,
follows the arguments.
Where applicable, 
the last paragraph of the explanation lists the possible 
Xlib error codes that the function can generate.
For a complete discussion of the Xlib error codes,
see section 8.12.2.
.IP \(bu 5
To eliminate any ambiguity between those arguments that you pass and those that 
a function returns to you,
the explanations for all arguments that you pass start with the word
\fIspecifies\fP or, in the case of multiple arguments, the word \fIspecify\^\fP.
The explanations for all arguments that are returned to you start with the
word \fIreturns\fP or, in the case of multiple arguments, the word \fIreturn\^\fP.
The explanations for all arguments that you can pass and are returned start
with the words \fIspecifies and returns\^\fP.
.IP \(bu 5
Any pointer to a structure that is used to return a value is designated as 
such by the \fI_return\fP suffix as part of its name.
All other pointers passed to these functions are
used for reading only.
A few arguments use pointers to structures that are used for
both input and output and are indicated by using the \fI_in_out\fP suffix.
.IP \(bu 5
Xlib defines the Boolean values of
.PN True
and
.PN False .
.bp
